README.md, before:

<h1><img width=250px src="https://atsign.dev/assets/img/atPlatform_logo_gray.svg?sanitize=true"></h1>

[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/atsign-foundation/at_python/badge)](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/atsign-foundation/at_python)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/8104/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/8104)

# The atPlatform for Python developers - (Beta Version)

This repo contains library, samples and examples for developers who wish
to work with the atPlatform from Python code.

## Getting Started

### 1. Installation

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install .
```

### 2. Setting up your `.atKeys`

To run the examples save .atKeys file in the '~/.atsign/keys/' directory.

### 3. Sending and Receiving Data

There are 3 ways in which data can be sent and received from at server.

1. Using PublicKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import PublicKey

    atsign = AtSign("@bob")
    atclient = AtClient(atsign)
    pk = PublicKey("key", atsign)

    # Sending data
    response = atclient.put(pk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    response = atclient.get(pk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = atclient.delete(pk)
    print(response)
    ```

2. Using SelfKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import SelfKey

    atsign = AtSign("@bob")
    atclient = AtClient(atsign)
    sk = SelfKey("key", atsign)

    # Sending data
    response = atclient.put(sk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    response = atclient.get(sk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = atclient.delete(sk)
    print(response)
    ```

3. Using SharedKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import SharedKey

    bob = AtSign("@bob")
    alice = AtSign("@alice")
    bob_atclient = AtClient(bob)
    sk = SharedKey("key", bob, alice)

    # Sending data
    response = bob_atclient.put(sk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    alice_atclient = AtClient(alice)
    response = alice_atclient.get(sk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = bob_atclient.delete(sk)
    print(response)
    ```

### CLI Tools

* **REPL** - you can use this to type atPlatform commands and see responses;
but the best thing about the REPL currently is that it shows the data
notifications as they are received. The REPL code has the essentials of what
a 'receiving' client needs to do - i.e.
  * create an AtClient (assigning a Queue object to its queue parameter)
  * start two new threads
    * one for the AtClient.start_monitor() task: receives data update/delete
    notification events (the event data contains the ciphertext)
    * the other one calls handle_event() method, which will read the
    upcoming events in the queue and handle them:
    * calling AtClient.handle_event() (to decrypt the notifications and
    introducing the result as a new event in the queue)
    * reading the new event, which contains the decrypted result
  * Instructions to run the REPL:
    1) Run repl.py and choose an atSign using option `1`
    2) Select option `2`. REPL will start and activate monitor mode
    automatically in a different thread. You can still send commands/verbs.
    You will start seeing your own notifications (from yourself to yourself)
    and heartbeat working (noop verb is sent from time to time as a keepalive)
    3) Use `at_talk` or any other tool to send notifications to your atSign
    from a different atSign. You should be able to see the complete
    notification, and the encrypted and decrypted value of it.

* **REGISTER** - use this cli to register new free atsign. Uses onboarding
cli to create atkey files.
  * Use following command to run the REGISTER cli using email:

    ```shell
    python register.py -e <email>
    ```

  * Use following command to run the REGISTER cli using api-key:

    ```shell
    python register.py -k <api-key>
    ```

* **ONBOARDING** - use this cli to onboard a new atSign. Once onboarding
is complete it creates the all-important keys file. Onboard is a subset of
Register.
  * Use following command to run the ONBOARDING cli:

    ```shell
    python onboarding.py -a <atsign> -c <cram-secret>
    ```

* **SHARE** - use this cli to share data between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the SHARE cli:

    ```shell
    python share.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name> -s <value>
    ```

* **GET** - use this cli to get shared data between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the GET cli:

    ```shell
    python get.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name>
    ```

* **DELETE** - use this cli to delete any key shared between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the DELETE cli:

    ```shell
    python delete.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name>
    ```

## Open source usage and contributions

This is open source code, so feel free to use it as is, suggest changes or
enhancements or create your own version. See
[CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidance on how to setup
tools, tests and make a pull request.

## Maintainers

This project was created by [Umang Shah](https://github.com/shahumang19)
and is maintained by [Chris Swan](https://github.com/cpswan) and
[Xavier Lin](https://github.com/xlin123)

Commit message:

docs: Add PyPI install instructions

README.md, after:

<h1><img width=250px src="https://atsign.dev/assets/img/atPlatform_logo_gray.svg?sanitize=true"></h1>

[![OpenSSF Scorecard](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/atsign-foundation/at_python/badge)](https://api.securityscorecards.dev/projects/github.com/atsign-foundation/at_python)
[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/8104/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/8104)

# The atPlatform for Python developers - (Beta Version)

This repo contains library, samples and examples for developers who wish
to work with the atPlatform from Python code.

## Getting Started

### 1. Installation

This package can be installed from PyPI with:

```sh
pip install atsdk
```

Alternatively clone this repo and from the repo root:

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install .
```

### 2. Setting up your `.atKeys`

To run the examples save .atKeys file in the '~/.atsign/keys/' directory.

### 3. Sending and Receiving Data

There are 3 ways in which data can be sent and received from at server.

1. Using PublicKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import PublicKey

    atsign = AtSign("@bob")
    atclient = AtClient(atsign)
    pk = PublicKey("key", atsign)

    # Sending data
    response = atclient.put(pk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    response = atclient.get(pk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = atclient.delete(pk)
    print(response)
    ```

2. Using SelfKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import SelfKey

    atsign = AtSign("@bob")
    atclient = AtClient(atsign)
    sk = SelfKey("key", atsign)

    # Sending data
    response = atclient.put(sk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    response = atclient.get(sk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = atclient.delete(sk)
    print(response)
    ```

3. Using SharedKey

    ```python
    from at_client import AtClient
    from at_client.common import AtSign
    from at_client.common.keys import SharedKey

    bob = AtSign("@bob")
    alice = AtSign("@alice")
    bob_atclient = AtClient(bob)
    sk = SharedKey("key", bob, alice)

    # Sending data
    response = bob_atclient.put(sk, "value")
    print(response)

    # Receiving Data
    alice_atclient = AtClient(alice)
    response = alice_atclient.get(sk)
    print(response)

    # Deleting data
    response = bob_atclient.delete(sk)
    print(response)
    ```

### CLI Tools

* **REPL** - you can use this to type atPlatform commands and see responses;
but the best thing about the REPL currently is that it shows the data
notifications as they are received. The REPL code has the essentials of what
a 'receiving' client needs to do - i.e.
  * create an AtClient (assigning a Queue object to its queue parameter)
  * start two new threads
    * one for the AtClient.start_monitor() task: receives data update/delete
    notification events (the event data contains the ciphertext)
    * the other one calls handle_event() method, which will read the
    upcoming events in the queue and handle them:
    * calling AtClient.handle_event() (to decrypt the notifications and
    introducing the result as a new event in the queue)
    * reading the new event, which contains the decrypted result
  * Instructions to run the REPL:
    1) Run repl.py and choose an atSign using option `1`
    2) Select option `2`. REPL will start and activate monitor mode
    automatically in a different thread. You can still send commands/verbs.
    You will start seeing your own notifications (from yourself to yourself)
    and heartbeat working (noop verb is sent from time to time as a keepalive)
    3) Use `at_talk` or any other tool to send notifications to your atSign
    from a different atSign. You should be able to see the complete
    notification, and the encrypted and decrypted value of it.

* **REGISTER** - use this cli to register new free atsign. Uses onboarding
cli to create atkey files.
  * Use following command to run the REGISTER cli using email:

    ```shell
    python register.py -e <email>
    ```

  * Use following command to run the REGISTER cli using api-key:

    ```shell
    python register.py -k <api-key>
    ```

* **ONBOARDING** - use this cli to onboard a new atSign. Once onboarding
is complete it creates the all-important keys file. Onboard is a subset of
Register.
  * Use following command to run the ONBOARDING cli:

    ```shell
    python onboarding.py -a <atsign> -c <cram-secret>
    ```

* **SHARE** - use this cli to share data between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the SHARE cli:

    ```shell
    python share.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name> -s <value>
    ```

* **GET** - use this cli to get shared data between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the GET cli:

    ```shell
    python get.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name>
    ```

* **DELETE** - use this cli to delete any key shared between 2 atsigns.
  * Use following command to run the DELETE cli:

    ```shell
    python delete.py -a <atsign> -o <other-atsign> -k <key-name>
    ```

## Open source usage and contributions

This is open source code, so feel free to use it as is, suggest changes or
enhancements or create your own version. See
[CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed guidance on how to setup
tools, tests and make a pull request.

## Maintainers

This project was created by [Umang Shah](https://github.com/shahumang19)
and is maintained by [Chris Swan](https://github.com/cpswan) and
[Xavier Lin](https://github.com/xlin123)
